As always, it's a good idea to explore
our dataset before we begin the algorithm development process.
So lets take a deeper look at the computing in cardiology challenged dataset.
We can load our reference data,
which is basically just a flat table that tells us which rhythm each record is in.
So we have one column for the name of the record
and then the other column for the rhythm.
N stands for normal sinus rhythm and O for other rhythm.
We can take a look at the number of records we have.
We have a little bit more than 7,000
EKGs and we have one-and-a-half times more sinus rhythm data than other rhythm.
The sampling rate for our EKG is 300 hertz.
Now we can load our raw EKG data as well as the locations of the QRS complexes.
Instead of having us run our Pan-Tompkins algorithm that we built in the previous videos,
I've given you the locations of
the QRS complexes so that we can all start from the same starting point.
Next we can plot how long each EKG record is,
and we see that most of them are 30 seconds long,
some of them are 60 seconds long and then we have a few that are anywhere in between.
Lets take a look at some normal sinus rhythm data,
which is useful for getting a baseline idea of what the noise level of
our sensor is without having to worry about physiologically induced artifacts.
So here we see that the QRS complex is fairly large,
there's not a whole lot of baseline noise,
and our QRS complex detector is able to find all of these waveforms fairly easily.
Next we'll look at a noisier snippets of the EKG signal.
So this is a portion of the waveform that was corrupted by looks like motion artifact.
We can see that even in the presence of this artifact,
the QRS complex detector will still claim that it's finding QRS complexes.
Of course, during these noisier sections,
the error in our detector will probably be higher.
Finally, we can take a look at some AFib data.
We can tell this is AFib because there's no P waves
and the QRS complexes are occurring at irregular intervals,
and this irregularity will be the main feature that
we try to take advantage of in our algorithm.
You should download this notebook and play with the data for yourself.
Try to find some segments where the QRS detector messes up,
or look for examples of other rhythms that have regularly occurring QRS complexes.
These will be a few of the challenges that might confuse our algorithm.